Then you have the second mode.
In that second mode,
you actually ingest but you put into S3.
Once you put to S3 here,
that becomes the lake storage.
So the storage is not in HDFS.
As a matter of fact,
you would actually create Amazon EMR clusters with no HDFS at all, only spark.
The idea would be you would load the data that you need to do,
for the query that you need to do,
and from S3 and that's actually very simple.
You just point your data frame to S3 location and you'll have a data frame.
The computation is done.
Most likely if it's in a batch mode,
you would get this data and save the results.
It is so desired that can last a little bit longer to access it interactively as well.
The main differentiator here,
is that this cluster does not need to be 24/7 on.
You can shut down this cluster.
Sometimes it's also called like in batch mode the step function,
is just the data lakes on S3.
You make one computation,
you spin one or actually multiple of them to do the computations,
you write the data here, and you close the cluster.
The data is in S3 which is naturally if you're going to save a file 24/7,
it's definitely going to be much cheaper to save it in S3
compared to save it on 24/7 powered up EC2 machines.
So there is a little bit of cost-saving here.
However, for the performance,
the idea of loading the data was actually
initially one of the initial promises of big data architectures,
that data should be queried in place.
However, with the architecture or
the networking inside the cloud becoming faster and faster,
this is starting to diminish and mix that architecture feasibly.
So it's potentially less costly,
it's potentially less performance but not that much less performance,
and also it's easier to manage because S3 in general,
the steady state where you don't have anything to manage your data is safe.
There is no system administrator that needs to guarantee that
the cluster is always intact and nothing wrong goes with it.
Of course, my statement here is also not extremely accurate because
Amazon EMR itself takes care of the system administration.
However, in general anything in
EC2 is slightly more complicated than having it on the worry-free S3.
I would say also that you don't need to get Amazon EMR.
I would remind you that you can get also that part from any other vendor if you so wish.